Section on upcoming changes to our (La)TeX process (#850)
arXiv/arxiv-docs: source/help/submit/index.md

-   New submissions received by 14:00 (Eastern Daylight/Standard Time Zone) are generally made available at 20:00 (Eastern) based on the [schedule for availability](../availability.md). Also see [versions help pages](../versions.md).

## (La)TeX changes &mdash; April 2024

> We will soon be rolling out changes to how arXiv process (La)TeX subbmissions. These changes shouldn't be noticable to most of our users. We will be retiring the arXiv-developed "AutoTeX' system that we've used for decades in favor of a simpler, more straight-foward process of convering (La)TeX submissions to PDFs..

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We will soon be rolling out changes to how arXiv process (La)TeX subbmissions. These changes shouldn't be noticable to most of our users. We will be retiring the arXiv-developed "AutoTeX' system that we've used for decades in favor of a simpler, more straightforward process of converting (La)TeX submissions to PDFs.
```

 * The AutoTeX would try different versions of TeX to see which one successfully builds a PDF. Going forward we will only use the version of TeX currently used by arXiv

>    * Our plan is that arXivs "current" version closely tracck the annual TeX Live releases. In the past, we've often gone a few years between TeX updates

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * Our plan is that arXivs "current" version closely track the annual TeX Live releases. In the past, we've often gone a few years between TeX updates
```

>  * arXiv presently has about 70 LaTeX packages that we supply that papers can use without needing to upload their own copies. But we've found that only 0.65% of recent submissions depend on this. In some cases these packages are woefully out of date

Reviewer 2: arXiv presently has about 70 LaTeX packages we supply that papers can use without needing to upload their own copies. But we've found that only 0.65% of recent submissions depend on this. In some cases these packages are woefully out of date

   * We are going to eliminate these packages, and provide only those packages that are distributed with each annual TeX Live release. If you use any packages or style files that are not part of Tex Live, please upload them with your submission

At present, the documentation below is still completely accurate, but we are actively re-examining our (La)TeX processing,

> and there may be more changes in the future. If you have suggestions for changes we should make, pelase respond to 

Reviewer 2: and there may be more changes in the future. If you have suggestions for changes we should make, please respond to

from TeX/LaTeX source](../faq/whytex.md), and we
do not accept scanned documents, regardless of format.

## (La)TeX processing changes &mdash; April 2024

We will soon be rolling out changes to how arXiv process (La)TeX subbmissions. These changes shouldn't be noticable to most of our users. We will be retiring the arXiv-developed "AutoTeX' system that we've used for decades in favor of a simpler, more straight-foward process of convering (La)TeX submissions to PDFs..

 1. The AutoTeX would try different versions of TeX to see which one successfully builds a PDF. Going forward we will only use the version of TeX currently used by arXiv
    - Our plan is that arXivs "current" version closely tracck the annual TeX Live releases. In the past, we've often gone a few years between TeX updates

>  1. The AutoTeX system would attempt to detect image files that were not referenced in the (La)TeX source for the paper and append those images to the end of the PDF for the paper. Based on recent feedback, we find that most authors are surprised by this behvior, and we will thus be discontinuing this practice. If an author wants images at the end of their paper, just use the normal TeX procedures for this (see https://latex-tutorial.com/tutorials/figures/).

Reviewer 3: Sounds good, needs changes in genpdf.

> 1. The AutoTeX system would apply the [LaTeX hyperref package](https://ctan.org/pkg/hyperref) to LaTeX submissions that did not include `\use {hyperref}`. We will no longer do that. (Note &ndash; before you add a `\use {hyperref}` to your main.tex, check to see if the template you're using already has a reference; most do).

Reviewer 3: Maybe add something like:

1. The AutoTeX system would pre-load the [LaTeX hyperref package](https://ctan.org/pkg/hyperref) to LaTeX submissions that do not already include it. This package adds changes various references to active links in the PDF document (eg, clicking on a reference jumps to the entry in the bibliography section). We will no longer automatically try do add this package. (Note &ndash; before you add a `\usepackage{hyperref}` to your main TeX file, check to see if the template you're using already has a reference by checking the PDF for clickable links; most do).

> 1. The AutoTeX system would look for any string in a paper that looked like a reference to an arXiv paper (such as 	arXiv:2402.08954, or even just 2402.08954), and turn the into a hyperlink to the paper on arXiv. 

Reviewer 3: I think AutoTeX does that only in the references, **not** in the complete text of the article.

> We won't do that beforee. Authors can just write Why did we do this?

Reviewer 3: *before* (without double "e")

Reviewer 3: But anyway, I don't understand / cannot parse the sentence at all...

   - This sometimes resulted in floating point numbers being hyperelinked to random arXiv papers.

>    - While hacks like these arguably made for a better viewing experience, they also made our TeX processing complex and opaque. When we make modifications to user source like this, the paper on arXiv presents differently than the paper on the user's local machine.

Reviewer 3: I would change "hacks" to "changes" - I don't want to give the impression that we "hack"ed around ;-)

1. arXiv presently has about 70 LaTeX packages that we supply that papers can use without needing to upload their own copies. But we've found that only 0.65% of recent submissions depend on this. In some cases these packages are woefully out of date

>    - We are going to eliminate these packages, and provide only those packages that are distributed with each annual TeX Live release. If you use any packages or style files that are not part of Tex Live, please upload them with your submission

Reviewer 3: Add a final "."

> At present, the documentation below is still completely accurate, but we are actively re-examining our (La)TeX processing, and there may be more changes in the future. If you have suggestions for changes we should make, pelase respond to the post about this change on the [arXiv Blog](https://blog.arxiv.org/).

Reviewer 3: What do we do about mentioning the change that we *first* run pdflatex and then plain latex? Should we just ignore this in the blog post, since it will be the better outcome anyway for the large majority?

Reviewer 4: I think we should mention it, as it's a significant change in output (even if it's not a significant change, operationally).

Author: @jweiskoff or @norbusan  -- can you write something about that, bearing in mind that 90% of our audience likely doesn't know what pdflatex is?

Reviewer 3: I suggest not writing anything at all. The outcome for the user should be the same.

 1. The AutoTeX system would attempt to detect image files that were not referenced in the (La)TeX source for the paper and append those images to the end of the PDF for the paper. Based on recent feedback, we find that most authors are surprised by this behvior, and we will thus be discontinuing this practice. If an author wants images at the end of their paper, just use the normal TeX procedures for this (see https://latex-tutorial.com/tutorials/figures/).
  1. The AutoTeX system would pre-load the LaTeX hyperref package to LaTeX submissions that do not already include it. This package adds changes various references to active links in the PDF document (eg, clicking on a reference jumps to the entry in the bibliography section). We will no longer automatically try do add this package. (Note – before you add a \usepackage{hyperref} to your main TeX file, check to see if the template you're using already has a reference by checking the PDF for clickable links; most do).
1. The AutoTeX system would look for any references in a paper that looked like an arXiv paper ID (such as 	arXiv:2402.08954, or 2402.08954), and turn the into a hyperlink to the paper on arXiv. 

> We won't do that anymore. Authors should just write out \hyperref{https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.08954}.

Reviewer 3: write out \href{https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.08954}{2402.08954}. Please see the hyperref documentation for more options.
